Adds documentation of the build farms (#1629)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Contributing/Build-Farms.rst

* `devel jobs`_ will be triggered every time a commit is done to the respective branch or to the
  respective pull request of the upstream [1]_ repository
* `release jobs`_ will be triggered once every time a new package version is released, i.e. a new
  rosdistro_ pull request was accepted for this package

Frequency Asked Questions (FaQ) and Troubleshooting
---------------------------------------------------

#. **Why do release jobs fail when dev jobs / my github actions / my local builds succeed?**

   There are several potential reasons for this.
   First, release jobs build against a minimal ROS installation to check if all dependencies are
   properly declared. Dev jobs / github actions / local builds may be performed in an environment
   that has the dependencies already installed, therefore not noticing dependency issues.
   Second, they might build different versions of the source code. While dev jobs / github actions
   / local builds usually build the latest version from the *upstream* [1]_ repository,
   `release jobs`_ build the source code of the latest release, i.e. the source code in the
   respective *upstream* branches of the *release* repository [2]_.

> #. **I get Jenkins mails from failing 'bin' jobs. What do I do?**

Reviewer: This FAQ element has inconsistent naming with the above "release jobs" which I think are also referring to "bin" jobs. 

It might make sense to have an FAQ on how to decode the job name abberviations and then use the full names in the headings.  Or possibly include this in the job type summary above.

Author: That's a very good idea. I will add it.

Author: Adds description on how to decode job names

>    This is a failing release job, see `job descriptions above`_. It will usually fail due to

Reviewer: A dependency issue is common especially for first releases, but I wouldn't say it's "usually" and not provide any other suggestions. 

This should likely give basic instructions such as:

* Click on the link in the email to go to the console output. 
* Expand to the full console output
* Look for the first error. (The first error is the most important there's sometimes additional errors that are fallout of the first error.)

Author: I separated the general debug instructions from handling of dependency issues now in the FaQ.

.. _BuildFarms:

===============
ROS Build Farms
===============

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 1
   :local:

> The ROS build farms are an important infrastructure to support the ROS ecosystem, provided and
> maintained by `Open Robotics`_. It provides building of source and binary packages, continuous
> integration, testing, and analysis for ROS 1 resp. ROS 2 packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ROS build farms are an important infrastructure to support the ROS ecosystem, provided and
maintained by `Open Robotics`_.
They provide building of source and binary packages, continuous integration, testing, and analysis for ROS 1 and ROS 2 packages.
```

There are two hosted instance for open source packages:

#. https://build.ros.org/ for ROS 1 packages
#. https://build.ros2.org/ for ROS 2 packages

> If you are going to use any of the provided infrastructure please consider signing up for the build
> farm discussion forum (http://discourse.ros.org/c/buildfarm) in order to receive notifications,
> e.g., about any upcoming changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are going to use any of the provided infrastructure please consider signing up for the
`build farm discussion forum <http://discourse.ros.org/c/buildfarm>`__ in order to receive notifications,
e.g., about any upcoming changes.
```

Jobs and Deployment
-------------------

> The ROS build farms perform several different jobs. For each job type you will find a detailed
> description what they do and how they work:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ROS build farms perform several different jobs.
For each job type you will find a detailed description of what they do and how they work:
```

* `release jobs`_ generate binary packages, e.g., debian packages
* `devel jobs`_ build and test ROS packages within a single repository
* `CI jobs`_ build and test ROS packages across repositories with the option of using artifacts
  from other CI jobs to speed up the build
* `doc jobs`_ generate the API documentation of packages and extract information from the manifests
* `miscellaneous jobs`_ perform maintenance tasks and generate informational data to visualize the
  status of the build farm and its generated artifacts

Creation and Deployment
.......................

> The above jobs are crated and deployed when packages are bloomed_, i.e. released for ROS
> 1 or ROS 2. Once blooming is successful and a package is incorporated in one of the ros

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above jobs are created and deployed when packages are bloomed_, i.e. released for ROS
1 or ROS 2.
Once blooming is successful and a package is incorporated in one of the ROS
```

distributions (via pull request to rosdistro_), the according jobs will be spawned.
The names of the jobs encode their type and purpose: [1]_

* release jobs:
   * ``{distro}src_{platf}__{package}__{platform}__source`` build source packages of releases

>    * ``{distro}bin_{platf}__{package}__{platform}__binary`` build binary packages of releases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * ``{distro}bin_{platf}__{package}__{platform}__binary`` build binary packages of releases
 
 For instance, the binary packaging job of rclcpp on ROS 2 Galactic (running on Ubuntu Focal amd64) is named ``Gbin_uF64__rclcpp__ubuntu_focal_amd64__binary``.  
```

* devel jobs:
   * ``{distro}dev__{package}__{platform}`` perform a CI build for the releasing branch

>    * ``{distro}pr__{package}__{platform}`` perform a CI build for a pull request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * ``{distro}pr__{package}__{platform}`` perform a CI build for a pull request
   
For instance, the PR job for rclcpp on ROS 2 Galactic (running on Ubuntu Focal amd64) is named ``Gpr__rclcpp__ubuntu_focal_amd64``.
```

Execution
.........

Execution of the jobs depends on the type of the job:

* `devel jobs`_ will be triggered every time a commit is done to the respective branch or to the
  respective pull request of the upstream [2]_ repository
* `release jobs`_ will be triggered once every time a new package version is released, i.e. a new
  rosdistro_ pull request was accepted for this package. The source jobs are triggered by a version

>   change in the rosdistro distribution file, the binary jobs are triggered by their source counter
>   part.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  change in the rosdistro distribution file, the binary jobs are triggered by their source counterpart.
```

> Frequency Asked Questions (FaQ) and Troubleshooting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Frequency Asked Questions (FAQ) and Troubleshooting
```

---------------------------------------------------

#. **I get Jenkins mails from failing build farm jobs. What do I do?**

   Go to the job that raised the issue. You find the link on top of the Jenkins email.
   Once you followed the link to the build job, click *Console Output* on the left, then click
   *Full Log*. This will give you the full console output of the failing build. Try to find the
   top-most error as it is usually the most important and other errors might be follow-ups.

   The bottom of the email might read ``'apt-src build [...]' failed. This is usually because of
   an error building the package.`` This usually hints at missing dependencies, see 2.

> #. **I seem to miss a dependency, how do I find out which one?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **I seem to be missing a dependency, how do I find out which one?**
```

   You basically have two options, a. is easier but may take several iterations, b. is more
   elaborate and gives you the full insight as well as local debugging.

   a) Inspect the release job that raised the issue (see 1.) and localize the cmake dependency
      issue. To do so, browse to the cmake section, e.g., navigate to the *build binarydeb*
      section through the menu on the left in case of a ubuntu/debian build job. The *CMake Error*
      will typically hint at a dependency required by the cmake configuration but missing in the

>       `package manifest`_. Once you fixed the dependency in the manifest, do a new release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      `package manifest`_. Once you have fixed the dependency in the manifest, do a new release
```

      of your package and wait for feedback from the build farms or...
   b) To get the full insight and faster, local debugging, you can `run the release jobs locally`_.
      This allows to iterate the manifest locally until all dependencies are fixed.

#. **Why do release jobs fail when devel jobs / my github actions / my local builds succeed?**

   There are several potential reasons for this.
   First, release jobs build against a minimal ROS installation to check if all dependencies are
   properly declared in the `package manifest`_. Devel jobs / github actions / local builds may

>    be performed in an environment that has the dependencies already installed, therefore not
>    noticing dependency issues. Second, they might build different versions of the source code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   be performed in an environment that has the dependencies already installed, therefore does not
   notice dependency issues. Second, they might build different versions of the source code.
```
